vi manonnorrorv.

the Muses, and now the success ol some early love-poema
fired his genius and changed his life. Henoelorth he de·
voted himsell ιο poetryrsnd a lile ol literary ease. Sueba
lile he loved above all othere, ond fortunately his circnm-
stances vere such that he was able to indulge himself. 'Pho
greater part of his lile was passed under exceptionally happy

circumstances. The consciens productiones immortalworks
must initsell have been the source oi great satistaction to
the author. Besidee this, Ovid had friends and congenial
compaciens among the poete end other prominent men ol
Rome.

Alter two ,unhappy marriages, Ovid found in his third

wile a companion upon whom he bestowed great praise in his
poema He hed a daughter, itis uncertain hy which wife.

When the poet ves fifty years old and his hair was well
sprinkled with gray, suddenly there came open him, like a
thunderholt irem a clear sky, a decree from the hand oi Au·
gustus haniehing him ιο the town ol Teneion the Black Sea,
near the mouth ol the Danube. The cause oi this deorse is
net known. Ovid everywhere says that his fault or mistake
did not amounttoaorime. ·

Ovid took a sorrowiul sarevell oi his friends and family
end oi the city which he loved so well. After a long and
tedicus journey he arrived et his’destination, the home ol
the harbarcus Getae. There, amid very uncongeniel sur-
roundinge, he passed the remaining years oi his lile3 and
there he died, nnpardoned, in the year 17 an. (according ιο
seme, 18 an), et the ege oi fifty-nine (or sixty).

Ovid's chier vorke were as follows ε

1. Amores, three books oi short poema on various snbjeots,
hut mainly love-poems addressed ιο Corinna, the fictitious
name οι Ovid’s mistress.

2. fflroette, twenty-one epistles, mainly imaginary love·
letters irem famous women ot the heroic age to their absent
husbands or lovers.

3. Ars Amatoria, in three books, in dorm didactic, con-
veying instructions to men end women how ιο gain the affec·
tione oi the opposite sex.

 

